---
mood-rating: "9"
---
Jesus I'm bad at being consistant. It has been about two weeks since my last entry. To be entirely honest not a whole lot has changed in those two weeks. Not a lot does anymore, at least not right now. With me being in school the only thing that has really changed is the assignment that's due and the bills that I'm stressed about.

I've gotten back into Crusader Kings III recently and have been playing through as the Toulouse dynasty starting in 867. The new DLC coming out seems to be adding Asia which would be cool to see but I worry how it'll turn out. I really want to get the Roads to Power DLC that came out last year because seeing gameplay of it it seems to have changed the way some systems work and I think it could be fun to mess with. But that's $40 I don't have right now so I'll have to wait.

My recent obsession with CK3 has also reignited an obsession with history in general. I'm excited for my WWI and WWII class next semester even if it will be for only 7 weeks. I'm looking forward to learning more about that period, so I expect to see a lot more notes in this vault about that time period and those people. Maybe funny moustache man will even get his own .md file.

Speaking of, I was both reassured by Zach and Ethan and then concerned by Abid today. Zach and Ethan seem to lean much more right than I do and make a lot of those "edgy" jokes that young men like to make. Makes me worry about them sometimes and where they might be headed. But Zach had mentioned something today about people genuinely believing this shit and genuinely denying the Holocaust and how he couldn't believe people were that stupid. So its good to know he's got a good head on his shoulders.

Abid on the other hand worries me. He has mentioned multiple times being interested in military history and especially *German* military history. He claims to have read Mein Kampf (I don't personally believe this, feels like a tall tale a lonely teenage boy might come up with to impress, or shock, his tutor) and has made multiple jokes about Nazi stuff. I don't know if Sam and Itab quite know what their son is up to or in to.

But as for my general interest in history, I have begun reading *SPQR* by Mary Beard and I really like it so far. The first chapter was about Cicero and Catiline, two figures that apparently are very well known but I had only ever heard of Cicero's name in passing and never heard of Catiline until I read this book. But the event sounds intriguing. I've heard many people say that "you have to understand Roman history to understand today's politics" and I usually brush these people off as weirdos but the events of Cicero and Catiline do have some parallels to modern or even recent history. Cicero is seen as the hero, a great orator, and a pursuer of justice against the renegade and rebellious Catiline, but later this view has been questioned. Even Cicero later in his career was exiled from Rome for his giving the death penalty to Catiline's followers without due process. Cicero seems to me a charismatic authoritarian figure, with Catiline possibly the justifiable hero of the down-trodden. I'd like to learn more about this and Rome in general, as its an area I know very little about. I feel now that I have this database, entering in the things I learn may go a long way in helping me retain and remember them.

For example, I recently learned that the word *malaria* comes from the Roman believe that the disease was caused by "bad air", or *mal aria*. I've said that fact aloud like 3 times over the last week and I think it'll stick with me forever now that I've also written it here.