I want to start journalling. I've never really properly kept a journal for myself but I feel that this will be something good for me. I'm currently redoing my Bible study (gross, triggering) notes out of OneNote and into Obsidian, and I've realized that the when I was doing that, back in May 2021, I was essentially journaling. It's fascinating looking back and seeing my thought processes at the time and I want to have some sort of record of that in the future. Ultimately the goal of this is to determine trends in my day-to-day life, but if I have some personal growth and introspection along the way, then so be it.

So, brief rundown of my life at the moment. I am currently in the 5th semester of the Electrical Engineering Technology program at Fanshawe. I'm enjoying it but there have been a lot of issues with some of my professors this semester, namely Leah Tomaszewski (Elec systems design) and Sydney Quesnel (calc 3). Ultimately though I'm sure this will be a temporary bother, and in a few years time I'll likely forget about them and the issues I had with them. 

Ocean and I are living in London on Wonderland Rd. I love her very much. She's been sneaking hits off of Sarah and Kennedy's cigarettes recently though and that kind of bums me out, but other than that things could not be better with us. I feel very lucky to have an incredibly stable relationship when those around me (Tim, Kennedy, Aryan, Sophia) can't seem to figure the relationship thing out. It's been cool seeing Zach grow into his relationship and I feel that's brought us a little closer.

Adia contacted me again at the end of February and I finally told her I didn't want to be a witness right now. In truth I don't _ever_ want to be a witness again but I feel awkward telling her that. In some stupid way I feel like that's letting her down even though she hasn't been in my life for well over 5 years at this point. Ocean and I are supposed to go over to her and Ben's place this Saturday and I don't know if that's going to happen.... My last communication with her was an awkward text chain where she basically said I need to sort out my belief in God before I die. I don't know. I guess I should have expected this but a part of me thought she'd listen and get it. Instead it's the same old witness bullshit.

That conversation, about why I left the witnesses, had sort of become a catalyst that has caused me to revisit my Bible notes. Looking back on those notes I can see I really was bitter at the time of writing them. It's refreshing to see how my view has changed even in those 4 years. I still don't believe in the Bible as the "word of God" but it's cool to look at it as just a historical text, with no ties to my future.

My French learning has taken a bit of a hit. I feel a little burnt out lately, between school, tutoring, etc. and French just couldn't be a priority. Honestly right now the biggest stress is money. I have only a week and a half to make a bunch of money to pay last month's rent, not even this month. It's frustrating and I wish I had more hours in the day or that I had the energy to work more or that Ocean had the ability to work more. I'm sure we'll be fine, but it's stressful as hell.

Mais, j'ai été disant a propos de ma français. Je veux utiliser plus des temps pour apprendre le langue, et je crois que si j'écris un peu en français dans ce journal, même si je dois utiliser la traduction Google pour des mots, ce serai bien pour moi. Je ne sais pas si ce paragraphe est correct ou non mais ce me sens bien à écrire dans ça langue. 

Peut être, dans la futur, je pourrais écrire tout mes écritures en français. Mais, pour maintenant, je dois le limiter à deux paragraphes.

Anyways for tonight I think that's it. Today was a pretty good day. I think the sun is helping kick me out of my slump. Hopefully it stays that way.

Oh! One last thing. I started the concerta two days ago. I'm gonna try to remember to take it every day and we'll see how I deal with it.