---
mood-rating: "6"
---

Ocean self harmed today. This is the second time in about a month or so. She did it around about a year ago, possibly more I don't remember exactly. She said this morning that she could feel the depressive period returning. February was rough for her, she barely got any of her school work done and she is already falling quite behind. I don't know if this is going to work out for her but I don't know how to tell her that... I worry she's going to burn out and then have a ton of student debt with nothing to show for it, debt we'll have to pay off. I also worry about her mental state, and now I'm going to be worried every time I leave the house if she's going to do something stupid. I want her to be able to open up to me and express her emotions but also, that was all last month felt like it was. I'm starting to think that might have partially been why my own mental state hasn't been doing too hot. I've been trying to compensate for her, for a long time honestly, but especially the last few months, that I'm wearing myself thin. Between college, work, and being there for her I don't have much time for me. 

I feel like I come off as ungrateful. I know that I'm very lucky to have her and we're both lucky to be where we are. But being lucky and feeling lucky don't always follow one another. Right now it feels like I'm drowning, and the worst part is the one person who can keep me up is falling herself. I need assurance that she'll be okay so that *I* can be okay but I don't know if that's something I'll get anytime soon.

It feels so shitty to make her depression and self harm about me. I'm obviously not going to say any of this to her. I had a thought today that I feel like at times around the apartment I live by myself but have the expenses of two people. What Ocean makes is barely enough to help us get by. I'm working tons of hours tutoring and then DataAnnotation on top of it all. It's draining. I'm just hoping a lifeline exists out there somewhere, otherwise I don't know how we'll survive April.

Dans d'autres nouvelles, j'ai passé un examen aujourd'hui et il y a deux heures j'ai réalisé que j'avais fait une erreur dans ma réponse à la dernière question. C'était même une question de physique ! Je ne comprends pas comment j'ai fait cette erreur. J'espère que ça n'affectara pas trop ma note. Au moins je sais maintenant que je ne vais pas faire la même erreur à l'examen final. 

J'aimerais lire plus de livres. J'ai lu environ 75% de *Don Quixote* mais je ne l'ai pas lu depuis deux mois. J'ai trop de livres et je n'ai pas le temps de tous les lire.