---
mood-rating: "8"
---
Okay I promise this time I mean it when I say it: today is a better day. This morning was a slog to get up but I felt much, I don't know, lighter (?) when I woke up than when I fell asleep. Last night involved me mainly talking to Ocean about my feelings of loneliness and we stayed in together, watched some *Always Sunny*, it was a good time.

I realized that within obsidian I can have custom fields up at the top, so today I'm going to start adding a mood rating out of 10 to each entry. Its not perfect but its a start.

Today was supposed to be the night Ocean and I went to Adia and Ben's. Adia and I left things kind of tense in our last text exchange and it appears neither of us want to address it any further right now so I guess we're not going over tonight. Its disappointing, because when I talked to her at Kelsey's it seemed like she genuinely wanted to reconnect as family, not try to reindoctrinate us. But in our text conversation that completely seemed like her aim, so I'm not really sure what to think anymore. On one hand I would like to get to know her better now, but unless she starts down the same path I did, I don't think there's a chance of that happening.

Ocean and I also turned down an offer from Tim and Kennedy (separate offers) to hang with them tonight. I think we both just need some time in. I'm a little worried about Ocean, her mental health hasn't been great lately and she is constantly tired. Hopefully its nothing too serious but it concerns me sometimes.

J'ai eu une pensée hier (m'appeles "Pascal"). Je pense que j'utilise une autre langue pour éviter mes sentiments et mes émotions. Je sens que c'est une façon dont je peux m'éloigner de mes sentiments. S'il y a une barrière entre moi et mes émotions, je n'ai pas à les ressentir, je peux les intellectualiser. Ce n'est pas nouveau non plus. J'ai fait la même chose avec l'espagnol et le russe. Mais j'ai besoin de la pratique donc je ne vais pas m'arrêter de sitôt.