---
mood-rating: "8"
---

Four days in a row. Honestly crazy. Granted, it is currently 23:20 before I remembered I hadnt yet journaled today, so we're cutting it close to be sure but we did it nonetheless.

Today was another good day. I got up early, made breakfast for Ocean and I, remembered my meds, even did some DataAnnotation this morning. Not as much as I would have liked to get done today but it's better than nothing I suppose. Ocean was having a rough day, she's still very tired and she didn't quite have the motivation to do anything today. She slept quite a bit today. This afternoon and evening though we did something together: I got her Astroneer and we played that for a few hours. It's really fun when we're able to do things like that, I enjoy spending my time with her like that. 

We talked to Alex for a little bit tonight. I'm very conflicted because I know what Becca told me, about him being kind of an asshole to her earlier when he first moved to PA, but him and I were also really good friends for a bit and it's nice to reconnect. I think part of my conflicting feelings come from the fact that it felt like he so readily pulled away from me when he moved, like he just dropped me for other friends. Which like, those friends were people he was able to see in person so I get it to an extent, but it still hurt just the same. 

I really don't have much more to say for today. I'm tired myself and I have lab tomorrow morning as well as a calculus test (although not one I'm particularly worried about tbh) so I should get some rest.