---
mood-rating: "7"
---
Well I guess I spoke too soon about me being able to keep this up. Its been three days since my last entry, so we'll do a brief recap.

On Tuesday (18th) Ocean and I drove to Sarnia for a doctor's appointment. Ocean found out her iron levels were 11, apparently healthy ranges are anywhere from 30 - 200ish, which is crazy. She's going to get some sort of supplement to help with that, and I'm sure we can make some diet adjustments to help. Doctor (well actually, NP) says my cholesterol was a little high but that may have been due to the fact I did not fast before the blood test. She also mentioned something about my blood sugar being in the "warning range" but not necessarily unhealthy. Just something to keep my eye on.

We then visited with my family and had lunch at their place. We caught up, and it was nice to talk to Rylan for the first time in a while. At times I'll get the feeling we've grown apart and that he doesn't like me anymore but then I'll see him in person and it's like I never left. I do miss living closer to family for him, but I'm very happy to have some distance between myself and my parents. I love them, but they (especially my mum) can be a lot sometimes.

After driving home, I went to my lab and completed lab 9 in power electronics. I'd like to get the soldering done for lab 10 before next Tuesday but with how much Data annotation I'm going to have to do I'm not sure I'll be able to. We'll see. 

Wednesday was pretty meh. Wrote my electrical systems design test in the morning, I'm not really sure how well that went but again, we'll see. I had to argue my point on a couple questions so hopefully Leah is lenient. I thought I had begun getting sick on Wednesday. I tutored Joshua this night and we worked on tension problems. I think I might have made a mistake in this problem but I'll have to double check.

On Thursday I had to hand in the second phase for systems design. I started feeling worse Thursday so I cancelled my tutoring sessions and took the night off. Well, I should've taken the night off. Instead I ended up doing our taxes. I owe the government something like $25 but I'm happy I properly reported my income rather than tried to cover it up and get hit with a bunch of fees later on. Ocean is going to get a $3000 refund which would be a huge help. 

Today, I had my PLC applications test. Got a 94%. This test felt a lot better than the previous unit test. Zach said he got an 81% and I felt bad. He's been pretty hard on himself lately it seems and I don't like saying things that could bring him down further. I tutored Ariana today in science and did some questions with mass, volume, and density.

I've spent the rest of the day today doing some Data Annotation. I am currently sitting at around $600 USD in my account. If I can get two to three hundred dollars in the next couple days then we might be okay for the end of the month. Like the other things in this entry, we'll see...